W-13465567 Add route policy (1.6) (#437)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.6/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-included-traffic-management-route.adoc

= Traffic Management for Multiple Upstream Services
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:keywords: route, traffic management, upstream service

[%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===

> >s| Policy Name | Traffic Management for Multiple Upstream Services

Reviewer: (what does the `>s` do?)

Author: It bolds the text in that first column. FWIW it's here because all our legacy policies have this table formatting, and I included it for consistency.

>s|Summary      | Manages API instance traffic to multiple upstream services from a single consumer endpoint
>s| First Flex Gateway version available | v1.0.0
.4+>.^s| Returned Status Codes | No return codes exist for this policy.
[%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===

[NOTE]
====

> The following information applies only to Flex Gateway running in Local Mode. To configure multiple upstream services for Flex Gateway running in Connected Mode, see xref:api-manager::create-instance-task-flex.adoc#traffic-management[Multiple Upstream Services for Flex Gateway Running in Connected Mode].

Reviewer: (Leave hard-coded link text for anchor links)

Author: See comment above.

====

== Summary

Flex Gateway manages request traffic by using different routes that can each direct traffic to multiple upstream services. Flex Gateway directs traffic to the routes by using the route order and the individual route's rules. Additionally, you can add a weighted percentage to each upstream service within a route to manage the percentage of requests sent to the upstream service. For information about adding weight percentages, refer to xref:policies-included-traffic-management.adoc[].

> To allow routing requests to a `Service` when an `ApiInstance` does not include `spec.services`, you must define a `PolicyBinding` configuration with the Traffic Management for Multiple Upstream Services (`route`) policy. It is not necessary to configure a `route` policy if a custom policy is managing requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow routing requests to a `Service` when an `ApiInstance` does not include `spec.services`, you must define a `PolicyBinding` configuration with the Traffic Management for Multiple Upstream Services (`route`) policy. You don't need to configure a `route` policy if a custom policy is managing requests.
```

== Configuring Policy Parameters

Refer to the following policy definition and table of parameters:

----
policyRef:
  name: route
config:
  destinationPath: <string> // OPTIONAL, default: "/"
  destinationRef:
      name: <string> // REQUIRED
      kind: <string> // OPTIONAL, default: "Service"
      namespace: <string> // OPTIONAL, default: ""
rules:
  - path: <URL-regex> // OPTIONAL, Example: (.*)
    methods: <regex-string> // OPTIONAL, Example: GET|POST
    headers:
      <header-name>: <regex-string> // OPTIONAL
    host: <regex-string> // OPTIONAL
----

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
| Parameter | Required or Optional | Default Value | Description

| `destinationPath`
| Optional
| "/"
| Path of the upstream service

| `destinationRef.name`
| Required
| N/A
| Name of the upstream service as defined in the `Service` configuration resource

| `destinationRef.kind`
| Optional
| "Service"
|

| `destinationRef.namespace`
| Optional
| ""
|

| `rules`
| Optional
| Empty
| Array of rulesets for this route. +
Each route can support multiple rulesets.

| `rules.path`
| Optional
| Empty

> | Request path that the route can service. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Request path that the route can service. 
+
```

Reviewer: (I don't know if this even works in tables, but consider putting the plus on a line by itself for more vertical space.
